Create outline for product focused learning segment (#473)
InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath: product/outline.md

# Takeaways

After going through this segment, you will:

* understand how Agile software development relates to InnerSource:
   * Which problems does InnerSource address that cause issues in typical agile teams? (Think "wait it out", "build workarounds" vs. "help with the solution".)
   * In what aspects does InnerSource differ from agile or traditional software development - in particular when the same terminology and technology is used? (Think "Issue tracker for backlog/ board management vs. issue tracker for communication", "code review as quality gate vs. continuous code review as a conversation").
*  understand how even with InnerSource the host team still has to plan time and capacity when receiving features as pull requests as opposed to features requests.
*  understand additional negotiation possibilities that InnerSource brings (think "host teams implements tricky feature request of contributing team, in return the contributing team helps with simpler features that the host teams has higher up on their priority list")

# Outline

InnerSource and Agile

- Issues InnerSource solves

> - Common mis-understandings

Author: That could certainly be part of it. Another thing I see: Agile uses certain tools and phrases. Sometimes InnerSource uses the same tools and phrases - but with different meaning or purpose.

If with an InnerSource background you talk to an Agile coach about issue trackers you may notice that they are using them as a digital board of sticky notes to track progress. In Open Source at least I see issue trackers as a place where people communicate, collect information, design, test and talk about architecture. As a result there are people from the agile community who see it as best practice to keep information in issues that are not currently under development as low as possible - this makes it easier to avoid the sunk cost fallacy when having to decide to archive issues that are not currently of interest - and sometimes never will be of interest.

Another example would be code reviews: In traditional software engineering those are done as well - but for the purpose of quality control, often after the entire code base has been written, commonly by an entity that is not related to the original team that did the implementation. In InnerSource we do pull requests which come with code review as well - but they are much more incremental, they can happen on work in progress pieces and they are much more a conversation instead of quality checking.

I'm sure together we can think of other examples where people coming from an agile background will be bound to understand what we talk about in the wrong way. The goal of this section would be to highlight those things so people stop talking past each other...

> - Common mis-understandings

Reviewer: Good points.  Putting some of those sub-bullets in the outline could be useful.

> - Common mis-understandings

Reviewer 2: I agree to @MaineC's points and we should add them.
There's a huge variation of what people claim to be agile, I've even seen partial cases where some agile practitioners pretty much were aligned with the innersource/opensource interpretation. So probably add a "YMMV, vastly"? :wink: 

Also, depending on the state of the company when starting any innersource efforts and the level of micropolitical activity in the company, you'll surface **very** strong effects as you highlight and impact all of these games being played. So maybe a  warning / notice might be warranted?

InnerSource and capacity planning

- Small vs. large changes
- Planning for mentoring
- Contributions as long term investments in your upstream InnerSource project

> InnerSource and contribution negotiation

Author: Maybe we can broaden the scope of this section then to everything that product ppl can help with when it comes to facilitating contributions? In my experience they tend to have prioritization and negotiation skills that can come in handy...

Things like
* stop building workarounds, do take the time to create and submit contributions
* help with finding a good time slot to work on contributions where the host team has time for mentoring and the contributing team as time for working on the change.
* help with making time for mentoring by coming up with schemas where the contributing team does the easy features higher up on the backlog of the host team and in turn the host team focuses on a change the contributing team needs but is unable to do themselves.

I'm certain there are other things that product people can help facilitate.

> InnerSource and contribution negotiation

Reviewer: Agree.

# Audience

While the content of this segment can be intersting to engineers in order to help their teams better navigate business decisions related to InnerSource the core audience are people in your team and across your organisation that deal with product development. The goal of this segment is to help you understand how InnerSource can help interdependent teams resolve requirements without syncing work to the point where both teams operate in lock-step.

# Takeaways

After going through this segment, you will:

* understand how Agile software development relates to InnerSource:

>    * Which problems does InnerSource address that cause issues in typical agile teams? (Think "wait it out", "build workarounds" vs. "help with the solution".)

Author: ```suggestion
   * Which problems does InnerSource address that cause issues in typical agile teams? 
        * "wait it out", "build workarounds" vs. "help with the solution"
        * cross-team collaboration
        * remote first teams
```

   * In what aspects does InnerSource differ from agile or traditional software development - in particular when the same terminology and technology is used? (Think "Issue tracker for backlog/ board management vs. issue tracker for communication", "code review as quality gate vs. continuous code review as a conversation").
*  understand how even with InnerSource the host team still has to plan time and capacity when receiving features as pull requests as opposed to features requests.
*  understand additional negotiation possibilities that InnerSource brings (think "host teams implements tricky feature request of contributing team, in return the contributing team helps with simpler features that the host teams has higher up on their priority list")

> 

Author: * Understand how agile and InnerSource complement each other
   * Well factored and well tested code leads to faster on-ramp for agile teams, but also helps InnerSource allowing for faster on-ramp for contributors
   * A focus on working together and not assigning individual tasks allows for easier on-ramp of contributors.
   * Existing local pairing can make cross team pairing and sharing of work in progress easier.
   * Existing test driven development means that confidence in contributions is higher.
   * XP teams have a "leave the code in better shape than you found it" attitude - mitigates the risk of decline in quality or co-hesion of code when faced with multiple contributions from different sources.

   - The impact of transparency: How InnerSource depends on trust, what to avoid to keep trust alive.
   

InnerSource and capacity planning

- Small vs. large changes
- Planning for mentoring
- Contributions as long term investments in your upstream InnerSource project
Representing in roadmap.

The need for negotiation skills in InnerSource projects

- Small vs. large changes - why smaller changes are easier to integrate ad-hoc than large refactorings
- Best practices for integrating large changesets
   - Coordinate a common understanding of the InnerSource project roadmap
   - Up-front product and engineering design review
   - Coordinate the timing of larger contributions
- Unconventional solutions to priority conflicts
- Communicate the need to think in contributions instead of building workarounds.

Options for shared ownership

- Introduce InnerSource governance levels 
   - Governance levels pattern
   - Implications of each level on product management
- Common hurdles (line management, performance review setups)
- Advantages
- Commons issues wrt. operations and solutions

> Relation to open source

Author: My thinking here was that certain goals can be achieved with InnerSource, but as soon as people start thinking about collaboration the step towards open source is fairly small. The idea is to highlight which aspects would be an argument to aim for open instead of InnerSource.

What I have in mind for that is a link to https://blog.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/MZOTS_OS_Archetypes_report_ext_scr.pdf - page 28
